PREVIOUSLY ON "ENTERPRISE"...
YOU, DENOBULAN.
COME WITH US.
[ GRUNTING ]
THE VIRUS IS SPREADING
FROM PLANET TO PLANET.
-MILLIONS ARE ALREADY INFECTED.
-WHAT DO YOU WANT WITH ME?
IF THIS CONTINUES, THE KLINGON
SPECIES WILL CEASE TO EXIST.
THAT NEEDS DOING, LIEUTENANT.
THERE'S A JOB
TO SAVE YOUR FRIEND'S LIFE.
IT MAY BE THE ONLY WAY
YOU DON'T SERIOUSLY EXPECT ME
TO HELP YOU CREATE
KLINGON AUGMENTS?
TAKE HIM.
THE MALCOLM REED I KNOW
WOULD GIVE HIS LIFE
BEFORE COMMITTING TREASON.
THERE ARE SOME...OBLIGATIONS...
MY LOYALTY TO YOU
THAT GO BEYOND
AND THIS CREW.
-T'Pol to Captain Archer.
-Go ahead.
has been compromised
The warp matrix
by a Klingon subroutine.
OUR COMMAND PROTOCOLS.
IT'S INFILTRATED
PRESSURE'S INCREASING AGAIN.
TAKE US TO WARP 5.2.
THAT SPEED FOR LONG.
SIR, WE CAN'T HOLD
We're out of options, Travis.
5.2.
AND NOW THE CONCLUSION.
[ RUMBLING ]
UNTIL OUR REACTOR BREACHES.
WE HAVE 47 MINUTES
WHAT DID THE KLINGONS DO TO IT?
ENGINEERING SUBROUTINES.
THEY ALTERED OUR
THE REACTOR'S GOING TO EXPLODE.
IF WE GO BELOW WARP 5,
HOW CAN I HELP?
I'VE JUST BEEN TALKING
WITH TRIP.
COLUMBIA CAN RENDEZVOUS
WITH US IN 30 MINUTES.
RESTORE THE SUBROUTINES.
HE SAYS HE CAN
HE CAN'T DO THAT
FROM COLUMBIA.
WE'RE GONNA BRING HIM ONBOARD.
WON'T OPERATE AT WARP,
THE TRANSPORTER
AND DOCKING'S OUT
OF THE QUESTION.
YOU HAVE EXPERIENCE
TRIP TOLD ME
TRANSFERRING PERSONNEL
AT WARP SPEED.
IN TRAINING EXERCISES, YES,
BUT AT WARP SPEED 1.
EVERY MOVE WAS REHEARSED
IN SIMULATORS FOR WEEKS.
WE DON'T HAVE WEEKS.
WARP FIELD WITH COLUMBIA'S.
WE'LL HAVE TO MERGE OUR
THE CALCULATIONS NOW.
T'POL'S DOING
WITHIN 50 METERS OF EACH OTHER.
AT WARP 5, WE'LL HAVE TO MOVE
EVER DONE THIS BEFORE?
HAS ANYONE
TRAVIS CAN HANDLE THE FLYING.
CAN YOU GET TRIP OVER HERE?
[ RUMBLING ]
YOU'LL HAVE TO LET ME OUT
OF THIS BRIG.
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG ROAD ♪
♪ GETTING FROM THERE TO HERE ♪
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME ♪
♪ BUT MY TIME IS FINALLY NEAR ♪
♪ AND I WILL SEE MY DREAM
COME ALIVE AT LAST ♪
♪ I WILL TOUCH THE SKY ♪
♪ AND THEY'RE NOT GONNA
HOLD ME DOWN NO MORE ♪
♪ NO, THEY'RE NOT GONNA
CHANGE MY MIND ♪
♪ 'CAUSE I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ OF THE HEART ♪
♪ I'M GOING WHERE MY HEART
WILL TAKE ME ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH TO BELIEVE ♪
♪ I CAN DO ANYTHING ♪
♪ I'VE GOT STRENGTH
OF THE SOUL ♪
♪ AND NO ONE'S GONNA BEND
OR BREAK ME ♪
♪ I CAN REACH ANY STAR ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT ♪
♪ FAITH OF THE HEART ♪
-[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
-COMMANDER TUCKER.
Are you ready for this?
AS READY AS I'LL EVER BE.
OPEN A CHANNEL.
Columbia to Enterprise.
[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
THIS IS ARCHER.
and trajectory as requested.
We're matching speed
STAND BY, COLUMBIA.
ARCHER TO REED.
GO AHEAD.
We're in position.
HAVE THEM START
THEIR ROTATION.
COMING UP ON 100 METERS.
90. 80 METERS.
THIS IS THE BRIDGE.
ALL HANDS BRACE FOR
WARP-FIELD CONTACT.
HOLD HER STEADY, TRAVIS,
or Chef will know who to blame
for the mess in the galley.
WE'RE AT 50 METERS
AND HOLDING.
MAKE SURE EVERYTHING'S READY
FOR TRIP IN ENGINEERING.
[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
-ARCHER TO REED.
YOU'RE ALL CLEAR.
-Understood.
I'M DEPLOYING THE TETHER.
COLUMBIA,
NICE SHOOTING, MALCOLM.
TUCKER TO CAPTAIN HERNANDEZ.
-I'M HEADING OUT.
-Go ahead.
Quick as you can, Commander.
[ SIGHS ]
NEVER THOUGHT I'D SEE
THE STARS LIKE THIS.
EYES ON THE CABLE, COMMANDER.
I NEED YOU BACK HERE
IN ONE PIECE.
YOU'RE DOING FINE, TRIP.
[ RUMBLING ]
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
T'POL, WHAT'S HAPPENING?
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
I'M READING A FLUCTUATION
IN THE WARP FIELD.
Take power from life support
if you have to,
BUT KEEP THE FIELD CONSTANT.
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
SIR, I'M HAVING TROUBLE
HOLDING POSITION.
52 METERS, 55.
DON'T MEAN TO BE A PEST,
BUT COULD SOMEONE TELL ME
WHAT'S GOING ON?
YOU'RE ALMOST HERE, TRIP.
KEEP GOING.
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
ENGINEERING, REPORT!
I'M REROUTING POWER NOW,
CAPTAIN. STAND BY.
59 METERS.
THE TETHER'S AT ITS LIMIT!
HURRY UP!
T'POL TO THE BRIDGE.
IT'S NOT WORKING.
THE FIELD IS STILL
FLUCTUATING.
ALMOST THERE!
PERMISSION TO COME ABOARD?
BRIDGE, I HAVE HIM.
YOU ALL RIGHT, TRIP?
I'LL FEEL A LOT BETTER
WHEN THIS IS OVER.
THERE'S ONLY ONE WAY TO DO THIS,
CAPTAIN -- A COLD START.
I HAVE TO SHUT DOWN THE REACTOR
AND RESET THE ALGORITHMS.
THE WARP ENGINE BACK ONLINE,
ONCE WE BRING
THE SUBROUTINES SHOULD BE
BACK TO NORMAL.
BUT IF WE SHUT DOWN
THE REACTOR --
inside Columbia's warp field.
That's why we need to move
THEY CAN SUSTAIN OUR SPEED WHILE
I REINITIALIZE THE ENGINES.
THEY WON'T BE ABLE TO HOLD US
FOR MORE THAN A MINUTE OR TWO.
THEY DON'T HAVE ENOUGH POWER.
I'VE GOT A SHORTCUT IN MIND.
SHORTCUT?
WOULD TAKE HOURS TO DECRYPT.
THOSE SUBROUTINES
BETTER JUST TO PURGE THEM,
WIPE THEM CLEAN.
I'LL CONTACT COLUMBIA.
WHAT ARE THEY HERE FOR?
THE CAPTAIN AND I HAVE HAD
A SLIGHT MISUNDERSTANDING.
HOW SLIGHT?
TO ESCORT ME BACK TO THE BRIG.
THESE GENTLEMEN ARE HERE
DON'T WORRY.
WHEN WE'RE NOT QUITE SO BUSY.
I'LL TELL YOU ALL ABOUT IT
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
FANCY MEETING YOU HERE.
INTERMIX PRESSURE?
1527.
-87 MILLICOCHRANES.
-FIELD VARIANCE?
SOMEBODY HASN'T BEEN TAKING
VERY GOOD CARE OF MY ENGINE.
SPEAK WITH THE KLINGONS.
-YOU MIGHT WANT TO TAKE NOTES.
-WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
A MANUAL SHUTDOWN AND RESTART
I'M ABOUT TO PERFORM
IN LESS THAN TWO MINUTES.
THAT'S NOT POSSIBLE.
WATCH ME.
-COLUMBIA TO ENTERPRISE.
-GO AHEAD.
I've routed everything I've got
to my warp field.
DO ME A FAVOR, JONATHAN.
MAKE THIS QUICK.
ARCHER TO TRIP.
READY WHEN YOU ARE.
STAND BY! EVERYONE GET AWAY
FROM THE BULKHEADS!
A LITTLE HOT IN HERE!
IT'S GONNA GET
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
REACTOR SHUT DOWN IN 5, 4,
3, 2, 1!
T'POL, PRIME THE INJECTORS.
-JENKINS, MAN THE RELAYS.
-YES, SIR.
YOU'VE GOT ABOUT 40 SECONDS.
COLUMBIA TO ENTERPRISE.
UNDERSTOOD.
-Trip, how's it going?
-[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
-JUST ANOTHER MINUTE, CAPTAIN.
-You don't have a minute!
GET READY TO INITIALIZE
THE MATRIX.
WE'RE LOSING THE FIELD.
ENTERPRISE,
15 SECONDS, TRIP.
FULL POWER TO CONTAINMENT.
ALMOST THERE.
FIRE UP THE ANTIMATTER STREAM.
10 seconds.
9, 8, 7, 6...
-COMMANDER!
-HERE WE GO!
-...5, 4...
3, 2...
[ ENGINES WHOOSH ]
WE'VE GOT WARP POWER.
ENGINEERING TO THE BRIDGE.
SUBROUTINES HAVE BEEN PURGED.
Appreciate the house call,
Mr. Tucker.
ANYTIME.
I'D LIKE TO DROP TO IMPULSE
FOR A WHILE, CAPTAIN,
-just to check things over.
-STAND BY.
ENTERPRISE TO COLUMBIA.
THANKS FOR THE LIFT.
MY CHIEF ENGINEER THAT EASILY.
YOU'RE NOT GETTING AWAY WITH
ANY PLANS FOR THE NEXT FEW DAYS?
WHAT'VE YOU GOT IN MIND?
PHLOX.
PHLOX?
THIS WILL HELP.
[ GRUNTS ]
FOR THE GENERAL'S CONDUCT.
MY APOLOGIES
TO TREAT A MAN OF SCIENCE!
SO CRUEL! THIS IS NO WAY
[ PANTING ]
THEN END IT.
CONTACT STARFLEET.
MY PEOPLE NEED YOU, PHLOX.
WITH YOUR ABILITIES.
WE HAVE NO HEALERS
YOU WANT ME TO CREATE
KLINGON AUGMENTS,
LIVING WEAPONS.
I WON'T DO IT.
I'VE BEEN REVIEWING YOUR WORK.
NO, NO.
IT'S BRILLIANT!
IN THE VIRUS CAUSING THE PLAGUE.
YOU HAVE DISCOVERED A WEAKNESS
TRANSCRIPTION SEQUENCE HERE...
IF WE INTERRUPT THE
YES. YES.
THE GENETIC EFFECTS
THAT WOULD STOP
OF THE VIRUS IN STAGE ONE.
THERE'D BE CHANGES
OF APPEARANCE,
SOME MINOR NEURAL REORDERING,
OF STAGE-TWO CHARACTERISTICS.
BUT NO DEVELOPMENT
OR SPEED OR ENDURANCE.
NO ENHANCED STRENGTH
[ CHUCKLES ]
WOULD NOT GET HIS AUGMENTS.
BUT THEN GENERAL K'VAGH
HE WOULD NEVER ALLOW IT.
WHAT IF WE DON'T TELL HIM?
DO YOU UNDERSTAND
WHAT WILL HAPPEN
THAT WE'VE DECEIVED HIM?
IF THE GENERAL LEARNS
MILLIONS OF INNOCENT LIVES.
THE CURE WOULD SAVE
COULD THERE BE FOR A HEALER,
WHAT MORE HONORABLE DEATH
KLINGON OR DENOBULAN?
CAPTAIN'S STARLOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
I'VE ASKED COLUMBIA TO JOIN US
IN OUR SEARCH FOR PHLOX.
WE'LL HAVE A BETTER CHANCE
THROUGH KLINGON TERRITORY
OF MAKING IT
WITH TWICE THE FIREPOWER.
I DON'T SUPPOSE YOU CAN TELL ME
WHERE I'M GOING THIS TIME?
NO, I DIDN'T THINK SO.
THOSE ARE MY PERSONAL FILES.
NOT WHEN THEY AFFECT MY SHIP!
T'POL RESTORED EVERYTHING
YOU TRIED TO ERASE.
WE RAN HIS FACE AND VOICEPRINT
THROUGH OUR DATABASE.
HIS NAME'S HARRIS.
HE WORKED IN STARFLEET SECURITY
UP TILL FIVE YEARS AGO.
AFTER THAT, HIS FILE ENDS.
CAPTAIN, THERE'S NOTHING MORE
I CAN ADD.
I WON'T ACCEPT THAT!
EVERY MEMBER OF THIS CREW.
YOU ENDANGERED
YOU ANSWER TO ME.
I THOUGHT I KNEW YOU, MALCOLM.
WHATEVER HOLD THIS HARRIS HAS
ON YOU,
-YOU COULD'VE COME TO ME.
-I'M UNDER ORDERS.
I'M YOUR COMMANDING OFFICER!
GOING ON, I'LL GO TO STARFLEET.
IF YOU DON'T TELL ME WHAT'S
WHATEVER YOU THINK YOU'VE BEEN
TRYING TO KEEP HIDDEN
IS GOING TO COME OUT --
IS THAT WHAT YOU WANT?
WHAT I DON'T KNOW.
I CAN'T TELL YOU
TO SOMEONE WHO CAN.
THEN LET ME TALK
SEND A MESSAGE TO HARRIS.
ALWAYS BEEN ONE OF HEALERS?
HAS THE HOUSE OF PHLOX
THERE IS NO, UH,
HOUSE OF PHLOX.
ARE DIFFERENT FROM KLINGONS'.
DENOBULAN FAMILY UNITS
AH, YES, I'VE HEARD.
THREE WIVES FOR EACH HUSBAND.
THREE HUSBANDS FOR EACH WIFE.
YOUR MATING PRACTICES
MUST BE VERY COMPLEX.
WONDROUSLY SO.
WHAT ABOUT THE HOUSE OF ANTAAK?
WE ARE A WARRIOR CASTE.
WHEN I BECAME A HEALER,
MY FATHER DISOWNED ME.
IN THE IMPERIAL FLEET,
AS A PHYSICIAN
YOU'VE SERVED IN THE MILITARY.
NOT AS WELL AS I SHOULD HAVE.
MY SUBJECTS PROPERLY.
I DID NOT SCREEN
THIS PLAGUE, ALL ITS VICTIMS...
IT'S MY FAULT.
THE REASON YOU'RE HERE.
MY FAILURE IS
THE HUMANS COULD NOT STOP US.
I AM YOUR SUPERIOR.
YOU WILL SALUTE.
NOW, REPORT.
ENTERPRISE WAS DESTROYED.
STARFLEET WILL THINK
IT WAS HER ENGINES.
ONE OF YOU IS MISSING.
THE HUMANS KILLED HIM.
YOUR SON WAS SLOW.
DID HE DIE WITH HONOR?
HE LET HUMANS KILL HIM.
[ DOOR OPENS ]
REPORT.
EXCELLENT PROGRESS.
DR. PHLOX HAS MADE
DETAILS.
THE RNA SEQUENCES THAT CODE --
I'VE IDENTIFIED
DETAILS I CAN PASS ON
TO MY SUPERIORS.
I KNOW WHERE TO LOOK
FOR THE SWITCH THAT WILL
TURN OFF THE VIRUS.
HOW LONG UNTIL YOU FIND IT?
AN HOUR.
ONE HOUR.
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
WHAT DO YOU WANT?
FOR THE HIGH COUNCIL.
I HAVE NEWS
EXPLAIN.
THE DENOBULAN IS CLOSE
TO PERFECTING THE
AUGMENTS' GENOME.
SHUT DOWN YOUR PROJECT.
THE COUNCIL HAS
IF YOU STERILIZE THIS COLONY,
THEN ALL OUR RESEARCH
WILL BE LOST.
THE FLEET WILL REACH YOU
IN THREE DAYS.
BY THE TIME WE GET TO ORBIT,
IF YOU'RE SUCCESSFUL
QU'VAT WILL BE SPARED.
[ DOOR OPENS ]
IT'S GONNA BE A WHILE
CAPTAIN,
TO NORMAL IN ENGINEERING.
BEFORE EVERYTHING'S BACK
CAN KELBY HANDLE IT?
[ SIGHS ]
I COULD PULL A LITTLE DOUBLE
DUTY TO HELP HIM OUT.
WITH CAPTAIN HERNANDEZ.
I COULD CHECK
SOMETHING ELSE?
GOING ON WITH MALCOLM?
WHAT THE HELL'S
NOTHING I CAN GET INTO
RIGHT NOW.
FAIR ENOUGH.
GET BACK TO COLUMBIA.
GUESS I'D BETTER
I'LL WALK WITH YOU.
ARE YOU ENJOYING YOUR TIME
ABOARD COLUMBIA?
SURE, WHY WOULDN'T I?
YOU HAVEN'T BEEN EXPERIENCING
ANY PROBLEMS?
SUCH AS?
ADJUSTING TO NEW FOOD,
NEW ROUTINES...
TROUBLE SLEEPING.
I SLEEP JUST FINE.
HOW ABOUT YOU?
FINE.
YOU SURE ABOUT THAT?
QUITE.
YOUR HOUR IS UP.
THE TEST RESULTS NOW.
WE ARE GETTING
WE ARE RUNNING OUT OF TIME!
GENERAL, I KNOW THE KLINGON
FLEET IS ON ITS WAY,
PROJECT COST YOU, PERSONALLY.
AND I UNDERSTAND WHAT THIS
ANTAAK TOLD ME ABOUT YOUR SON.
HE DIED IN COMBAT
FOR THE EMPIRE.
AT LEAST HE WAS SPARED THE FINAL
STAGE OF THIS DISEASE.
HOW HE WAS INFECTED?
MAY I, UH, ASK
FOR THE AUGMENT EXPERIMENT
COMMAND CHOSE HIS UNIT
OUR SUPPLY OF PRISONERS.
WHEN WE HAD EXHAUSTED
MY SON WAS A WARRIOR.
TREATMENT, AND I GAVE HIM NONE.
HE ASKED FOR NO SPECIAL
[ TRAY CLATTERS ]
[ SCOFFS ]
WHAT'D THEY GIVE YOU?
IT'S DEAD. I CAN'T EAT THAT.
NO WONDER YOU'RE ALL SO WEAK.
PHYSICAL STRENGTH
ISN'T EVERYTHING.
WIN WARS WITHOUT IT.
WELL, YOU CAN'T
BEING SMART IS MORE IMPORTANT.
THAT THE GREATEST VICTORIES
GENERAL SUN TZU SAID
WITHOUT FIGHTING.
ARE THOSE WON
THE GREAT KAHLESS SAID THERE'S
NO VICTORY WITHOUT COMBAT.
DO YOU EVER QUESTION
WHY YOU FIGHT?
SOLDIERS DON'T QUESTION.
THEY OBEY.
WHAT IF YOUR SUPERIORS
ARE WRONG?
THEY'RE IMPRISONED...OR KILLED.
THAT'S NOT HOW WE DO THINGS
IN STARFLEET.
WHICH IS WHY THE KLINGON EMPIRE
WILL DEFEAT YOU.
IN THE SAME BRIG THAT I'M IN?
THEN HOW COME YOU'RE
YOU SAID WE'D BECOME STRONGER.
YOU'VE DONE TO US.
THIS IS WHAT
SO HE SHOULD BE QUARANTINED.
HE WILL BECOME INFECTIOUS,
WE'LL REMAIN HERE.
IF WE'RE GOING TO DIE, WE'LL DIE
TOGETHER AS COMRADES.
BE PATIENT, LIEUTENANT.
TO STABILIZE THE HUMAN DNA.
THE DENOBULAN IS WORKING
YOU WILL ALL BE HEALTHY AGAIN
AND STRONGER THAN ANY KLINGON.
WILL HE RESTORE
OUR APPEARANCE?
I DON'T KNOW.
RETURN HOME LOOKING LIKE THIS?
HOW DO YOU EXPECT US TO
WE WILL BE OUTCASTS.
THERE WILL BE NO PLACE
FOR US IN THE EMPIRE.
YOUR HEART IS STILL KLINGON.
ARE YOU CERTAIN OF THAT?
WITH THE STARFLEET SHIP,
DURING THE BATTLE
I FELT FEAR FOR THE FIRST TIME
SINCE I WAS A CHILD.
I WASN'T ALONE.
I COULD SEE IT IN THE EYES
OF THE OTHERS.
WE'VE BECOME LIKE THEM.
WEAK, COWARDLY.
IT WOULD BE BETTER
FOR US TO DIE.
AS LONG AS I DRAW BREATH,
TURN ITS BACK ON YOU.
THE EMPIRE WILL NOT
YOU MISS PHLOX, TOO.
I GET THE FEELING
MAYBE IT'S JUST THE STASH OF
CHEESE HE'S GOT IN SICK BAY.
[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
HOLD THAT THOUGHT.
CAPTAIN ARCHER.
SOME QUESTIONS FOR ME.
I'M TOLD YOU HAVE
WHERE'S MY DOCTOR?
HE'S SAFE,
IMPORTANCE TO STARFLEET.
ON A MISSION OF GREAT
PHLOX WAS KIDNAPPED.
NEVER AUTHORIZE THAT.
STARFLEET WOULD
ARTICLE 14, SECTION 31.
REREAD THE CHARTER --
THERE ARE A FEW LINES
THAT MAKE ALLOWANCES
TIMES OF EXTRAORDINARY THREAT.
FOR BENDING THE RULES DURING
WHAT THREAT?
EARTH'S GOT A LOT OF ENEMIES.
TAKE YOUR PICK.
KLINGONS ATTACKED MY SHIP. IS
THAT WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT?
WHAT I WANT TO TALK ABOUT
IS LIEUTENANT REED.
FOR US OVER THE YEARS.
HE'S DONE GOOD WORK
DON'T BE TOO HARD ON HIM.
HE WAS JUST FOLLOWING
MY ORDERS.
IN AN IMPOSSIBLE POSITION.
YOU PUT HIM
I CAN UNDERSTAND WHY YOU
WOULD FEEL THAT WAY,
THAN ONE CAPTAIN AND ONE SHIP.
BUT THIS IS BIGGER
TO DO BETTER THAN THAT.
YOU'RE GONNA HAVE
ALL I CAN TELL YOU IS
THAT IF YOU INTERFERE
BEFORE PHLOX COMPLETES
HIS ASSIGNMENT,
THE REPERCUSSIONS WILL
AFFECT ENTIRE WORLDS.
ONE OF THESE FOUR STRAINS
HAS THE GENETIC TRIGGER
THAT CAN NEUTRALIZE THE VIRUS
TO ITS LETHAL STAGE.
BEFORE IT ADVANCES
-I DON'T KNOW YET.
-WHICH ONE?
TO CHECK EACH OF THEM.
THAT'S WHY I HAVE
-HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE?
-A WEEK.
YOUR FLEET CAN QUARANTINE
THIS WORLD, HMM,
WHILE I COMPLETE MY TESTS.
STERILIZATION IS NOT NECESSARY.
WILL NOT EXTEND HIS DEADLINE.
FLEET ADMIRAL KRELL
THE ONLY POSSIBLE WAY TO GET
RESULTS ON KRELL'S SCHEDULE
FOUR HEALTHY KLINGONS.
IS TO INFECT
YOU HAVE FOUR RIGHT HERE!
ONLY ONE OF THESE STRAINS
WILL WORK.
THE OTHER THREE WILL BE LETHAL.
ETHICALLY, IT'S UNTHINKABLE!
THE ETHICS, DOCTOR, ARE SIMPLE.
THREE LIVES TO SAVE MILLIONS.
IT DIDN'T SEEM LIKE LYING.
AT FIRST,
WHAT ELSE WOULD YOU CALL IT?
COVERT OPERATIONS.
I WAS A YOUNG ENSIGN.
IT WAS...EXCITING.
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT IT NOW?
I THOUGHT IT WAS DONE.
THAT HARRIS HAS CONTACTED ME
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME
SINCE I'VE SERVED ON ENTERPRISE.
HE TOLD ME ABOUT THE PLAGUE.
HELP THE KLINGONS FIND A CURE.
HE SAID THEY NEEDED PHLOX TO
TO JUST SLOW US DOWN.
I WAS SUPPOSED
DID HARRIS TELL YOU ABOUT THIS?
AT OUR PRISONER'S MEDICAL SCANS.
I HAD T'POL TAKE A CLOSER LOOK
IT'S HUMAN DNA.
I'M GUESSING THE PLAGUE
IS A SIDE EFFECT
OF A MILITARY EXPERIMENT
THAT WENT WRONG.
I DIDN'T KNOW.
HARRIS CLAIMS HE'S DOING THIS
BECAUSE STARFLEET NEEDS
A STABLE KLINGON EMPIRE.
DO YOU BELIEVE HIM?
I DON'T TRUST HIM.
IF THE KLINGONS NEEDED OUR HELP,
THERE ARE EASIER WAYS TO GET IT.
I WANTED TO TELL YOU EVERYTHING,
CAPTAIN.
THERE'S A WAY OUT OF THIS.
I DON'T HAVE TO PUT YOU
BACK IN THE BRIG,
WHERE YOUR LOYALTIES LIE.
BUT YOU HAVE TO CHOOSE
WHERE PHLOX WAS TAKEN,
I WASN'T TOLD
BUT STARFLEET INTELLIGENCE
BELIEVES THE KLINGONS HAVE
A GENETIC RESEARCH FACILITY
ON QU'VAT COLONY.
AS YOU WERE.
WE REACH QU'VAT?
HOW LONG UNTIL
SIX HOURS, SIR.
CAPTAIN, WE NEED TO BE READY
FOR KLINGON PATROLS.
WITHDRAWS TO A SAFER DISTANCE,
I SUGGEST THAT COLUMBIA
MAKE A SINGLE TARGET.
SO THAT WE DON'T
TO CAPTAIN HERNANDEZ.
OPEN A CHANNEL
SUCCEED IN PERFECTING AUGMENTS
WHY DID YOU THINK YOU'D
WHEN DR. SOONG FAILED?
SOONG'S MISTAKE WAS THAT
HE MADE TOO FEW OF THEM.
EARTH ONCE HAD THOUSANDS.
THEY BECAME TYRANNICAL
AND STARTED A WAR.
-KLINGONS HAVE DISCIPLINE.
-AUGMENTS DON'T.
THEIR INCREASED AGGRESSION
DECREASED INHIBITIONS.
IS MATCHED BY THEIR
YOU'D LOSE CONTROL OF THEM,
JUST AS HUMANS DID.
WHICH ONE OF US SURVIVES?
HOW LONG UNTIL WE KNOW
AN HOUR, AT MOST.
AFFECT THE RESULTS?
WOULD BLOODWINE
I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
THEN WE SHALL DRINK...
[ LAUGHS ]
...TO THE BRAVERY
OF THESE WARRIORS.
DOCTOR!
NEVER ON THE JOB.
[ CHUCKLES ]
QU'VAT COLONY TO WORK ON A CURE.
WE KNOW PHLOX WAS TAKEN TO
IN LESS THAN AN HOUR.
WE'RE GONNA BE THERE
[ COUGHING ]
KRELL'S PATROLS
WILL CRUSH YOU.
TO ENFORCE QUARANTINE ZONES.
THEY'VE ALL BEEN RECALLED
THE MEDICAL FACILITY.
PHLOX WILL BE IN
WE NEED THE COORDINATES.
[ COUGHS ]
IF YOU DON'T WANT TO HELP US,
HELP YOUR PEOPLE.
MY BROTHERS.
THEY'RE QUITE ILL.
SO ARE YOU.
TRY TO REST.
DOCTOR.
THE TWO GUARDS ARE DISPLAYING
THE FIRST SYMPTOMS.
OF THE THREE LETHAL STRAINS.
THAT ACCOUNTS FOR TWO
SO EITHER GENERAL K'VAGH LIVES,
OR I DO.
[ SCANNER BEEPS ]
IT'S THE GENERAL, ISN'T IT?
HIS STRAIN HAS THE CURE.
CHANCE WE CAN TREAT YOU IN TIME.
IF WE WORK QUICKLY, THERE'S A
[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
WHAT NOW?
THERE'S BEEN A COMPLICATION.
ANOTHER ONE?
FAILED TO STOP ENTERPRISE.
THIS TIME, YOUR PEOPLE
IT'S ON ITS WAY TO QU'VAT,
WITH COLUMBIA.
ORDER THEM TO WITHDRAW.
YOU KNOW I DON'T HAVE
THAT AUTHORITY.
THEN I'LL DESTROY THEM.
WE HAD AN ARRANGEMENT.
YOU DID WHAT I WANTED.
I DON'T NEED YOU ANYMORE.
OUR GOVERNMENTS WOULD BENEFIT
YOU AGREED THAT BOTH
IF THE TWO OF US
WORKED TOGETHER.
AND YOU BELIEVED ME.
LOAD THE AMINO ACIDS.
I'LL EXTRACT THE VIRAL DNA
FROM HIS BLOOD.
CAPTAIN.
YOU ALL RIGHT?
BETTER, NOW THAT YOU'RE HERE.
FATHER.
THAT YOU HAD BEEN KILLED.
I WAS TOLD
THE HUMANS SPARED ME.
-I CAME TO GET MY DOCTOR BACK.
-WE NEED HIM HERE.
I HAVE TWO SHIPS IN ORBIT,
HEAVILY ARMED.
I THINK I CAN SPEAK FOR MYSELF.
GENTLEMEN, PLEASE.
CAPTAIN.
I NEED A LITTLE MORE TIME
TO CURE THIS PLAGUE.
CURE?
YOU WERE SUPPOSED TO PERFECT
THE AUGMENT GENOME!
YOUR SON MAY BE ALIVE,
I LIED.
BUT HE WILL NOT SURVIVE
MUCH LONGER
UNLESS I COMPLETE MY WORK.
A FEW HOURS, CAPTAIN --
THAT'S ALL I ASK.
SEVERAL MILLION PATIENTS
ARE COUNTING ON IT.
-[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
-COMMANDER.
THREE KLINGON BATTLE CRUISERS
HAVE JUST DROPPED OUT OF WARP.
OPEN A CHANNEL TO COLUMBIA.
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
JAMMING EVERYTHING.
THE KLINGONS ARE
[ ALARM BLARING ]
WHAT IS IT?
-KRELL'S SHIPS ARE HERE.
-KEEP WORKING.
-[ COMMUNICATOR BEEPS ]
-ARCHER TO ENTERPRISE.
TELL THE KLINGONS
WE HAVE THE CURE.
ENTERPRISE, RESPOND.
This is Fleet Admiral Krell.
ERADICATE THIS COLONY.
I'M UNDER ORDERS TO
MY DOCTOR CAN STOP THE PLAGUE.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO DO THAT.
A MORE EFFECTIVE SOLUTION.
I HAVE
HELLO, ADMIRAL KRELL.
THIS IS DR. PHLOX.
THE DETAILS OF AN ANTIVIRUS.
I AM TRANSMITTING
PHYSICIANS CONFIRM MY FINDINGS,
FEEL FREE TO HAVE YOUR
AND YOU'RE WELCOME TO CALL
WITH ANY QUESTIONS.
My orders are clear.
CAPTAIN ARCHER,
YOUR SHIPS ARE NOW THE PROPERTY
OF THE KLINGON EMPIRE.
STAND DOWN OR BE DESTROYED.
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
PROCEED AS PLANNED.
LEAVE NOTHING STANDING.
THE LEAD SHIP'S MOVING
INTO A LOWER ORBIT.
THEY'RE CHARGING WEAPONS.
INTERCEPT COURSE.
-[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
-COLUMBIA.
I CAN'T GET THROUGH.
THEY'RE FIRING ON THE COLONY.
TARGET THEIR DISRUPTORS.
HOW STRONG ARE THE SHIELDS
AROUND THIS PLACE?
NOT STRONG ENOUGH!
TWO SHIPS IN ORBIT.
YOU SAID YOU HAD
I'M SURE THEY'RE DOING
EVERYTHING THEY CAN.
-[ COMMUNICATOR BEEPS ]
-ARCHER TO ENTERPRISE.
[ Static ]
THEY'RE CLOSING FROM ASTERN.
AFT CANNONS ARE DOWN.
COLUMBIA TO ENTERPRISE.
COULD USE A HAND.
LOOKED LIKE YOU
[ Static ]
LET'S KEEP THOSE SHIPS
OFF THEIR TAIL.
YOUR SHIPS ARE TAKING DAMAGE.
HOW MUCH LONGER?
AS I SAID, ANOTHER FEW HOURS.
CAN YOU SPEED THAT UP
A LITTLE?
PHLOX, I'VE GOT AN IDEA.
BUT IF WE WANT TO GET OUT
OF HERE IN ONE PIECE,
AND WE'VE GOT TO GET IT FAST.
WE'VE GOT TO GET THAT CURE,
I COULD FINISH THE ANTIVIRUS
IN LESS TIME
REPLICATE ENOUGH ANTIBODIES.
IF I HAD A HUMAN HOST TO
ANY OTHER HUMANS AROUND.
I DON'T SEE
TO EXPOSE YOU TO THE PLAGUE.
CAPTAIN, I WOULD HAVE
WHAT IT MIGHT DO TO YOU.
I CANNOT PREDICT
-WILL IT GIVE YOU THE CURE?
-UNQUESTIONABLY.
LET'S GET STARTED.
WHAT DO YOU INTEND TO DO?
BEST WEAPON AGAINST KRELL.
THIS VIRUS MAY BE OUR
READY WHEN YOU ARE.
ONE OF THE SHIPS
IS LOSING POWER.
THEIR PORT NACELLE
IS VULNERABLE.
THEN FIRE AT WILL.
IN ADDITION TO THE VIRUS,
WITH A METABOLIC CATALYST
I'M INJECTING YOU
YOUR IMMUNE RESPONSE.
TO ACCELERATE
IT WON'T BE PLEASANT.
IT'S NO USE. I CAN'T PENETRATE
THEIR SHIELDS.
COMMANDER, I'VE BROKEN THROUGH
THEIR JAMMING FREQUENCIES.
-T'POL TO CAPTAIN ARCHER.
-[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
-Captain, respond!
-[ Static ]
-DR. PHLOX HERE.
-[ GRUNTING ]
INDISPOSED AT THE MOMENT.
THE CAPTAIN IS
your hands full up there.
I imagine you have
TO SAY THE LEAST.
TO DEFUSE THE SITUATION,
WE HAVE A PLAN
BUT WE'LL NEED A FEW MORE
MINUTES TO CARRY IT OUT.
I'D APPRECIATE IT IF YOU
COULD KEEP THE CEILING
FROM CAVING IN ON US
UNTIL THEN.
Understood.
HOW MUCH HULL PLATING
DO WE HAVE LEFT?
62%.
MR. MAYWEATHER,
PUT US DIRECTLY
BETWEEN THAT CRUISER
AND THE COLONY.
YOU MAY WANT TO DIVERT
ALL AVAILABLE POWER
TO OUR DORSAL PLATING.
AYE, AYE.
[ GRUNTING ]
IT'S WORKING.
-THEY'RE SHIFTING THEIR ORBIT.
-STAY WITH THEM.
-HULL PLATING'S DOWN TO 40%.
-KEEP FIRING.
PLEASE DIRECT YOUR WEAPONS
CAPTAIN HERNANDEZ,
AT THE BATTLE CRUISER.
WE JUST LOST OUR WEAPONS.
WISH I COULD HELP.
IT'S DONE. HOLD HIM.
AAH!
WE'VE GOT IT!
IS THE CANISTER READY?
FIVE SECONDS AFTER TRANSPORT.
IT'S SET TO DISPERSE
SEND IT.
OPEN A CHANNEL TO KRELL.
HULL PLATING'S NEARLY DOWN.
WE CAN'T HOLD THIS POSITION
MUCH LONGER.
DR. PHLOX AGAIN.
ADMIRAL KRELL,
BY NOW YOU MAY HAVE NOTICED
which we sent to your bridge.
the small package
What you may not know
is that it contains
the metagenic virus.
a potent sample of
Even as we speak,
throughout your ship,
it is dispersing
infecting you and your crew.
YOU'RE LYING!
Check your internal sensors.
You will find
THAT THE ATMOSPHERE CONTAINS
MILLION OF THE VIRAL STRAIN.
APPROXIMATELY 20 PARTS PER
SENSORS, TRUST YOUR SENSES.
OR IF YOU DON'T TRUST YOUR
IN ABOUT 30 MINUTES --
THE INITIAL SYMPTOMS
YOU WILL FEEL
A TIGHTNESS IN THE CHEST,
IRREGULAR HEARTBEAT,
YOUR CRANIAL RIDGES.
TINGLING IN
THIS IS A COWARDLY ATTACK!
MAYBE SO. BUT I AM PREPARED
TO GIVE YOU THE CURE.
THANKS TO CAPTAIN ARCHER,
TO COMPLETE THE ANTIVIRUS.
I HAVE MANAGED
DESTROY THIS COLONY, WELL,
OF COURSE, IF YOU
TREATING YOU AND YOUR CREW
COULD PROVE DIFFICULT.
I SUGGEST YOU POWER DOWN
YOUR WEAPONS, ADMIRAL,
AND LET ME CURE YOUR PEOPLE.
[ SIGHS ]
CAPTAIN'S STARLOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
CONVINCED THE HIGH COUNCIL
ADMIRAL KRELL HAS
THEIR STERILIZATION PROGRAM.
TO CALL OFF
DISTRIBUTE PHLOX'S CURE
THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
THEY'VE PROMISED TO
THERE'S NO TRACE OF THE VIRUS
IN YOUR BLOODSTREAM.
MY TARG WON'T EVEN
RECOGNIZE ME.
IN THE FUTURE,
IT MAY BE POSSIBLE TO REVERSE
THE COSMETIC EFFECTS.
THIS IS WHAT I DESERVE.
I SUPPOSE
MILLIONS OF MY PEOPLE WILL HAVE
TO LIVE WITH THIS DISFIGUREMENT.
ON TO OUR CHILDREN.
IT'LL BE PASSED
LIFE WON'T BE EASY FOR US.
CORRECT YOUR MISTAKES.
YOU DID YOUR BEST TO
THAT'S ALL WE CAN
ASK OF OURSELVES.
I DOUBT MY SUPERIORS WILL ALLOW
ME TO REMAIN IN MY POSITION.
I'LL NEED TO FIND
A NEW SPECIALTY.
PERHAPS CRANIAL
RECONSTRUCTION.
ABOUT TO BECOME VERY POPULAR.
I HAVE A FEELING THAT'S
I'M GRATEFUL FOR EVERYTHING
THAT YOU'VE DONE.
-HOW ARE YOU FEELING?
-[ SIGHS ]
NOT TOO BAD, ASIDE FROM SOME
STRANGE CRAVINGS.
SOUNDS PRETTY GOOD RIGHT NOW.
A PLATEFUL OF LIVE GAGH
THE CRAVINGS SHOULD DISAPPEAR
IN A DAY OR SO,
ALONG WITH YOUR, UH, RIDGES.
IF I WERE YOU, CAPTAIN.
NO, I'D KEEP THEM
IT MAKES YOU LOOK INTIMIDATING.
I SHOULD GET BACK ON THE ROAD.
ONE OF US NEEDS TO GET
SOME EXPLORING DONE.
THANKS FOR YOUR HELP.
I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU SURVIVED
ALL THESE YEARS WITHOUT ME.
SHOULDN'T YOU BE JOINING HER?
AROUND FOR A LITTLE WHILE
I ASKED TRIP TO STICK
TO HELP US OUT WITH REPAIRS.
INDEED.
DOUBT BE DELIGHTED FOR THE HELP.
OUR NEW CHIEF ENGINEER WILL NO
NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT.
NO, KELBY'S GOT
I'M ONLY HERE TEMPORARILY.
[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
WHAT DO YOU WANT?
I CALLED TO THANK YOU.
ACCORDING TO OUR PROJECTIONS.
EVERYTHING WENT
THE EMPIRE'S BEEN STABILIZED.
I DOUBT VERY MUCH
WITH AUGMENTS ANY TIME SOON.
THEY'LL BE EXPERIMENTING
EVERYTHING TO CAPTAIN ARCHER.
WE COULD'VE EXPLAINED
THAT'S NOT HOW KRELL
WANTED THINGS DONE.
SINCE WHEN DO WE DO THINGS
THE WAY THE KLINGONS WANT?
WHEN IT'S IN OUR INTEREST.
I HAD TO KEEP CERTAIN DETAILS
FROM YOU AS WELL.
I HOPE THERE ARE
NO HARD FEELINGS.
WITHOUT YOU, LIEUTENANT.
WOULDN'T HAVE SUCCEEDED
THIS MISSION
DON'T EVER CONTACT ME AGAIN.
IS THAT CLEAR?
MAYBE YOU DIDN'T UNDERSTAND
OUR RECRUITMENT POLICY.
YOU CAN'T SIMPLY WALK AWAY.
OFFICER -- JONATHAN ARCHER.
I ANSWER TO ONE COMMANDING
LIEUTENANT, WHY DON'T WE --